add v8.5.7 release notes (#23061)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.5.7.md

    Starting from v8.5.7, TiKV reports per-Region read CPU usage in store heartbeats, and PD can use CPU usage as a scheduling dimension for read hot Region scheduling. This mechanism helps PD identify CPU-based read hotspots and balance them across TiKV stores more accurately.

    This feature also adds CPU-related hotspot statistics and scheduler controls, including the `cpu-read-rate` field in [hot store statistics](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#hot-read--write--store--history-start_time-end_time-key-value) and [the `min-hot-cpu-rate` and `cpu-rate-rank-step-ratio` scheduler configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#scheduler-config-balance-hot-region-scheduler).

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues#scatter-read-hotspots).

### Reliability

* Introduce a new system variable `max_user_connections` to limit the number of connections that different users can establish [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) <!--2405--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

>     Starting from v8.5.7, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections that a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.5.7, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections that a single user can establish to a single TiDB server instance. This helps prevent situations where excessive [token](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#token-limit) consumption by one user delays responses to requests from other users.
```

    In earlier versions, TiDB Dashboard identified Top SQL queries based only on CPU-related metrics, making it difficult to identify performance bottlenecks related to network or storage access in complex scenarios.

    Starting from v8.5.7, you can enable **TiKV Network IO collection (multi-dimensional)** in the Top SQL settings to view metrics such as `Network Bytes` and `Logical IO Bytes` for TiKV nodes. You can also analyze these metrics across multiple dimensions, including `By Query`, `By Table`, `By DB`, and `By Region`, helping you identify resource hotspots more comprehensively.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/top-sql).

### Data migration

* DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing [#12350](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12350) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929) <!--2427--> <!-- https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/12707 --> <!--tw:lilin90-->

    Starting from v8.5.7, DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing when `foreign_key_checks=1` and `syncer.worker-count > 1`.

>     Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be pre-created before the task starts. This support does not include many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, `compact` or `multiple-rows` DML boundary options, or safe-mode updates that modify primary keys or unique keys. When foreign key causality is enabled, hot configuration updates that change `worker-count`, `case-sensitive`, route rules, block-allow-list rules, binlog filter rules, or `foreign_key_checks` are rejected. To change these settings, stop and restart the task with the new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be created before the task starts. This feature does not support many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, the `compact` or `multiple-rows` DML boundary options, or safe-mode `UPDATE` statements that modify primary key or unique key values. When foreign key causality is enabled, hot configuration updates that modify `worker-count`, `case-sensitive`, route rules, block-allow-list rules, binlog filter rules, or `foreign_key_checks` are not supported. To change these settings, stop the task, update the configuration, and then restart the task.
```

>     For more information, see [DM Compatibility Catalog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/dm-compatibility-catalog#foreign-key-cascade-operations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/dm-compatibility-catalog#foreign-key-cascade-operations).
```

| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#storagemax-tsaction-on-invalid-update-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |

### Other changes

* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

## Deprecated features

* Starting from v8.5.7, the [telemetry](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/telemetry) feature in TiDB and TiDB Dashboard is deprecated.

## Removed features

* Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface. [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--2273--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

>     To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the [TiDB Lightning command-line tools](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-lightning-overview): [`tidb-lightning`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-lightning-command-line-full#tidb-lightning) for import tasks and [`tidb-lightning-ctl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-lightning-command-line-full#tidb-lightning-ctl) for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the TiDB Lightning command-line tools: [`tidb-lightning`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-lightning-command-line-full#tidb-lightning) for import tasks and [`tidb-lightning-ctl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-lightning-command-line-full#tidb-lightning-ctl) for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.
```

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_enable_telemetry-new-in-v402) | Deprecated | Starting from v8.5.7, TiDB deprecates this system variable and the telemetry feature. This variable is retained only for compatibility and is no longer recommended. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23171>;tw:lilin90--> |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `3` to accelerate statistics collection tasks and improve auto-analyze efficiency. If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the value of this variable remains unchanged after the upgrade. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23115>;tw:qiancai--> |

> | [`tidb_auto_build_stats_concurrency`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_build_stats_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `2` to improve the default performance and consistency of auto `ANALYZE`. If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the value of this variable remains unchanged after the upgrade. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23115>;tw:qiancai--> |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_auto_build_stats_concurrency`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_auto_build_stats_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `2` to improve the default performance of auto `ANALYZE`. If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the value of this variable remains unchanged after the upgrade. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23115>;tw:qiancai--> |
```

> | [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `4` to improve the default performance and consistency of auto `ANALYZE`. If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the value of this variable remains unchanged after the upgrade. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23115>;tw:qiancai--> |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `4` to accelerate scan operations performed when TiDB executes internal SQL statements. If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the value of this variable remains unchanged after the upgrade. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23115>;tw:qiancai--> |
```

| TiKV | [`resource-metering.enable-network-io-collection`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#resource-meteringenable-network-io-collection-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether TiKV collects network traffic and logical I/O information for Top SQL in addition to CPU data. The default value is `false`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23062>;tw:qiancai--> |
| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#storagemax-tsaction-on-invalid-update-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |

### Other changes

> * Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->
* Upgrade the Rust compiler version of v8.5 from nightly-2023-12-28 to nightly-2025-02-28, which improves the TiKV performance. If you are a TiKV developer, upgrade your Rust compiler version to ensure smooth compilation.
```

| TiKV | [`resource-metering.enable-network-io-collection`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#resource-meteringenable-network-io-collection-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether TiKV collects network traffic and logical I/O information for Top SQL in addition to CPU data. The default value is `false`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23062>;tw:qiancai--> |
| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#storagemax-tsaction-on-invalid-update-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |

### Other changes

* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

> * Upgrade the Rust compiler version of v8.5 from nightly-2023-12-28 to nightly-2025-02-28, which improves the TiKV performance. If you are a TiKV developer, upgrade your Rust compiler version to ensure smooth compilation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgrade the Rust compiler version of TiKV v8.5 from nightly-2023-12-28 to nightly-2025-02-28, which improves the TiKV performance. If you are a TiKV developer, upgrade your Rust compiler version to ensure smooth compilation.
```

    - Support viewing session connection attributes on the Slow Query page in TiDB Dashboard, including an optional list column and a dedicated detail tab, while remaining compatible with earlier TiDB versions that do not provide this field [#1899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1899) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) <!-- component: tidb-dashboard -->
    - Improve transactional timestamp validation by enforcing exact max-ts checks for non-TiDB requests, reducing the risk that external components use future timestamps incorrectly [#68799](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68799) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Optimize auto-commit optimistic transactions by skipping lock resolution on the first execution, reducing latency in high-contention scenarios [#58675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58675) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->

+ TiKV

>     - Remove the `resource_group` label from the TiKV Prometheus metric `tikv_resource_control_background_task_wait_duration` and aggregate it across all background groups, requiring dashboards and alerts that group or filter by `resource_group` to be updated [#19497](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19497) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Use a global rate limiter for all TiKV background resource groups and aggregate related background resource-control metrics without the `resource_group` label, requiring affected dashboards and alerts to be updated [#19497](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19497) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft -->
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.7 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.7.
---

# TiDB 8.5.7 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2026

TiDB version: 8.5.7

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Features

### Performance

* Support CPU-aware hot Region scheduling to improve read load balancing [#5718](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5718) [#19373](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19373) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!--2382--> <!--tw:qiancai-->

    In earlier versions, the hot Region scheduler balances read hotspots mainly by query rate and byte throughput. In some workloads, TiKV CPU usage remains uneven even when QPS and byte throughput appear balanced, such as when different queries have very different CPU costs or TiKV nodes have different performance profiles.

>     Starting from v8.5.7, TiKV reports per-Region read CPU usage in store heartbeats, and PD can use CPU usage as a scheduling dimension for read hot Region scheduling. This mechanism helps PD identify CPU-based read hotspots and balance them across TiKV stores more accurately.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.5.7, TiKV reports read CPU usage for hot Regions in store heartbeats, and PD can use CPU usage as a scheduling dimension for read hot Region scheduling. This mechanism helps PD identify CPU-based read hotspots and balance them across TiKV stores more accurately.
```

>     This feature also adds CPU-related hotspot statistics and scheduler controls, including the `cpu-read-rate` field in [hot store statistics](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#hot-read--write--store--history-start_time-end_time-key-value) and [the `min-hot-cpu-rate` and `cpu-rate-rank-step-ratio` scheduler configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#scheduler-config-balance-hot-region-scheduler).

Author: ```suggestion
    In addition, PD adds CPU-related hotspot statistics and scheduler controls, including the `cpu-read-rate` field in [hot store statistics](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#hot-read--write--store--history-start_time-end_time-key-value) and the [`min-hot-cpu-rate` and `cpu-rate-rank-step-ratio`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-control#scheduler-config-balance-hot-region-scheduler) scheduler configurations.
```

    Starting from v8.5.7, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections that a single user can establish to a single TiDB server instance. This helps prevent situations where excessive [token](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#token-limit) consumption by one user delays responses to requests from other users.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#max_user_connections-new-in-v857).

### SQL

* Support partial indexes to reduce index storage and DML maintenance overhead [#62444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62444) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) <!--21903--> <!--2270--> <!--tw:qiancai-->

    Starting from v8.5.7, TiDB supports partial indexes, which index only rows that satisfy a predicate defined in the index `WHERE` clause. You can create a partial index using `CREATE INDEX ... WHERE ...`, `ALTER TABLE ... ADD INDEX ... WHERE ...`, or an index definition in `CREATE TABLE`.

>     Partial indexes are useful when you frequently query a selective subset of rows or need unique constraints that apply only under specific conditions. Because rows outside the predicate are not written to the index, partial indexes help reduce index storage and can lower index maintenance overhead during `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations.

Author: ```suggestion
    Partial indexes are useful when you frequently query a subset of rows based on specific conditions or need unique constraints that apply only under specific conditions. Because rows outside the predicate are not written to the index, partial indexes help reduce index storage and can lower index maintenance overhead during `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/dm-compatibility-catalog#foreign-key-cascade-operations).

## Compatibility changes

For TiDB clusters newly deployed in v8.5.6 (that is, not upgraded from versions earlier than v8.5.4), you can smoothly upgrade to v8.5.7. Most changes in v8.5.7 are safe for routine upgrades, but this release also includes several behavior changes, MySQL compatibility changes, system variable updates, configuration parameter updates, and deprecated features. Before upgrading, make sure to carefully review this section.

### Behavior changes

> * TiKV now rejects confirmed invalid `max_ts` updates by default instead of only logging them. This improves safety by preventing invalid timestamp updates without panicking TiKV. To keep the previous log-only behavior, set `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` to `log` [#19755](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19755) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: tikv -->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV now rejects `max_ts` updates that are confirmed to be invalid by default, instead of only logging them. This change improves safety by preventing invalid timestamp updates without triggering a TiKV panic. To keep the previous log-only behavior, set [`storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#action-on-invalid-update-new-in-v857) to `log` [#19755](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19755) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: tikv -->
```

* Starting from v8.5.7, TiDB enables [optimizer fix control `52869`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/optimizer-fix-controls#52869-new-in-v810) by default. This change allows the optimizer to consider `IndexMerge` automatically when alternative indexes exist, which can change query plans in some cases. [#26764](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26764) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23142>;tw:qiancai-->

### MySQL compatibility

* Support parsing the `LATERAL` syntax for derived tables to improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility, including common use cases such as comma joins, `CROSS JOIN LATERAL`, and `INNER JOIN LATERAL` <!--2432--><!--tw:qiancai-->

>     Currently, TiDB only supports parsing [the `LATERAL` derived table syntax](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/lateral-derived-tables) and does not support executing queries that use this syntax. If you attempt to execute such a query, TiDB returns an error. You can track the progress of full execution support for this feature in issue [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328).

Author: ```suggestion
    Currently, TiDB only supports parsing [the `LATERAL` derived table syntax](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/lateral-derived-tables) and does not support executing queries that use this syntax. If you attempt to execute such a query, TiDB returns an error. You can track the progress of full execution support for this feature in issue [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328).

```

| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#action-on-invalid-update-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Determines how TiKV handles invalid `max-ts` update requests. The default value is `"error"`, which means that TiKV returns an error and stops processing the request when it detects invalid `max-ts` update requests. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23197/files>;tw:qiancai--> |
| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.cache-sync-interval`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#cache-sync-interval-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls the interval at which TiKV updates its local PD TSO cache. The default value is `"15s"`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23197/files>;tw:qiancai--> |
| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.max-drift`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#max-drift-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum time by which the timestamp of a read or write request can exceed the PD TSO cached in TiKV. The default value is `"60s"`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23197/files>;tw:qiancai--> |

> ### Other changes

Reviewer: Ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/release-8.2.0/#compiler-versions
```suggestion
### Compiler versions
```

> * Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. [#953](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/artifacts/pull/953) @[wuhuizuo](https://github.com/wuhuizuo) <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->
```

    - Improve hot read CPU observability by reporting per-region CPU usage in PD heartbeats [#19373](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19373) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Improve TiKV stability and security by upgrading vulnerable third-party dependencies for TiKV 8.5 and aligning the required compatibility fixes with upstream [#19713](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19713) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Support rank-based limit processing in TiKV to return more accurate results for queries that use truncate key expressions [#19388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19388) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Improve load-based Region splitting in TiKV by relaxing the default split thresholds and adding observability for split-key selection and CPU fallback decisions, helping operators handle hot Regions more effectively [#18932](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18932) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: tikv -->

+ PD

>     - Disable split scatter by default in PD to avoid unexpected scheduling after region splits; you can still enable it by setting `schedule.split-scatter-schedule-limit` to a positive value [#10592](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10592) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support batching PD region-routing lookups and serving them from PD followers to reduce routing latency and avoid overloading the PD leader at scale or after failovers [#8690](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8690) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Disable split scatter by default in PD to avoid unexpected scheduling after region splits; you can still enable it by setting `schedule.split-scatter-schedule-limit` to a positive value [#10592](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10592) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->
```

---

# TiDB 8.5.7 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2026

TiDB version: 8.5.7

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Features

### Scalability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Performance

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

* Support CPU-aware Hot Region scheduling to improve read load balancing [#5718](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5718) [#19373](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19373) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!--2382-->

    In earlier versions, the Hot Region scheduler balances read hotspots mainly by query and byte dimensions. In some workloads, TiKV CPU usage can still be uneven even when QPS and byte throughput appear balanced, such as when different queries have very different CPU costs or TiKV nodes have different performance profiles.

    Starting from v8.5.7, TiKV reports per-Region read CPU usage in PD heartbeats, and PD can use CPU usage as the first priority for Hot Region read scheduling. For clusters whose TiKV version supports CPU reporting, the default `read-priorities` of `balance-hot-region-scheduler` is `cpu,byte`; otherwise, PD falls back to `query,byte`. This helps PD identify CPU-based read hotspots and balance them across TiKV stores more accurately.

    This feature also adds CPU-related hotspot statistics and scheduler controls, including the `cpu-read-rate` field in hot store statistics and the `min-hot-cpu-rate` and `cpu-rate-rank-step-ratio` scheduler configuration items.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

```

    - Support partial ordered index optimization for `ORDER BY` ... `LIMIT` queries to reduce full table scans, controlled by the `tidb_opt_partial_ordered_index_for_topn` system variable [#63280](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63280) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Improve join plan selection to avoid choosing inefficient index joins when the estimated probe rows are close to a full scan, improving query performance in some `HASHAGG` + join scenarios [#67610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67610) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Improve query performance for nested `OR` conditions by enabling more efficient `IndexMerge` plans and allowing redundant global filters to be removed so `LIMIT` can be pushed down [#65822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65822) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) <!-- component: planner -->

>     - Support `LATERAL` derived tables to improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility, including common use cases such as comma joins, `CROSS JOIN LATERAL`, and `INNER JOIN LATERAL` [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->

Author: This is a new feature. ToDo: move it to the ## Features section and rewrite it.

    - Support caching prepared and non-prepared queries that use `set_var` and `resource_group` hints to improve plan cache hit rates for hinted queries [#60920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60920) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Optimize `ORDER BY ... LIMIT` and `ORDER BY ... TOPN` queries that use `IndexMerge` by pushing `Limit` or `TopN` down to individual partial paths when possible, reducing unnecessary scans and sorting in some query plans [#68773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68773) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Improve `ANALYZE` performance on newly bootstrapped clusters by using clustered primary keys for the `mysql.stats_*` system tables [#66751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66751) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Support the `max_user_connections` system variable and the `MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS` option in `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` to limit the number of concurrent connections for a user [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) <!-- component: sql-infra -->

>     - Improve compatibility of partial indexes with BR so that BR preserves their `WHERE` predicates when repairing ingest indexes during log restore [#62664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62664) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: sql-infra -->

Author: This is a new feature. ToDo: move it to the `## Features` section and rewrite it.

    - Add dynamic resource group isolation to protect sustained workloads from traffic spikes by deprioritizing requests from groups that exceed their historical RU baselines and optionally delaying or rejecting over-baseline requests under high CPU load, with new `resource-control` configuration options that are disabled by default [#19607](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19607) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft -->
    - Mark PITR-restored `Put` and `Delete` write CF records with the physical import transaction source during apply log processing so TiCDC can ignore PITR-imported data [#19669](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19669) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Add automatic fail-fast exit for TiKV nodes that detect disk I/O hangs to speed up recovery from unresponsive stores [#19626](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19626) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng) <!-- component: tikv -->

>     - Improve hot read CPU observability by reporting per-region CPU usage in PD heartbeats [#19373](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19373) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: tikv -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Improve TiKV stability and security by upgrading vulnerable third-party dependencies for TiKV 8.5 and aligning the required compatibility fixes with upstream [#19713](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19713) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Support rank-based limit processing in TiKV to return more accurate results for queries that use truncate key expressions [#19388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19388) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Improve load-based Region splitting in TiKV by relaxing the default split thresholds and adding observability for split-key selection and CPU fallback decisions, helping operators handle hot Regions more effectively [#18932](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18932) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: tikv -->

+ PD

>     - Support batching PD region-routing lookups and serving them from PD followers to reduce routing latency and avoid overloading the PD leader at scale or after failovers [#8690](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8690) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

Reviewer 4: The `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` environment variable mentioned in line 180 already includes this change.

Considering that only the corresponding user-facing behavior is exposed in the documentation, I think we can delete this line and keep only line 180.

    - Disable split scatter by default in PD to avoid unexpected scheduling after region splits; you can still enable it by setting `schedule.split-scatter-schedule-limit` to a positive value [#10592](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10592) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->
    - Optimize unsafe recovery empty-region plan generation to improve performance and reduce timeout risk in large clusters with many regions and gaps [#10638](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10638) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) <!-- component: pd -->

>     - Improve the performance and stability of runaway query watch handling, including more reliable watch synchronization across TiDB instances and more efficient background flushing and syncing [#65746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65746) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd -->

Reviewer 4: This is actually a TiDB-side change. Although it is listed under the PD component label, in fact it only involves changes on the TiDB side, so it would be more appropriate to include it in the TiDB release notes.

>     - Support using CPU usage in PD hot Region scheduling and hotspot statistics to improve read load balancing across TiKV stores [#5718](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5718) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. [#953](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/artifacts/pull/953) @[wuhuizuo](https://github.com/wuhuizuo)

Author: ```suggestion
* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. 
```

>     - Add the global system variable `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` to control whether TiDB uses batched Region queries to PD, improving the efficiency of fetching Region information; this variable is disabled by default [#58439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58439) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd -->

Reviewer 4: Additionally, this is only a change on the TiDB side, so it would be best to include it in TiDB’s release notes.

    - Support viewing session connection attributes on the Slow Query page in TiDB Dashboard, including an optional list column and a dedicated detail tab, while remaining compatible with earlier TiDB versions that do not provide this field [#1899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1899) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) <!-- component: tidb-dashboard -->
    - Improve transactional timestamp validation by enforcing exact max-ts checks for non-TiDB requests, reducing the risk that external components use future timestamps incorrectly [#68799](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68799) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Optimize auto-commit optimistic transactions by skipping lock resolution on the first execution, reducing latency in high-contention scenarios [#58675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58675) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance and stability of runaway query watch handling, including more reliable watch synchronization across TiDB instances and more efficient background flushing and syncing [#65746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65746) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd (Although it is listed under the PD component label, in fact it only involves changes on the TiDB side )-->
    - Add the global system variable `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` to control whether TiDB uses batched Region queries to PD, improving the efficiency of fetching Region information; this variable is disabled by default [#58439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58439) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd (this is only a change on the TiDB side,) -->

```

    - Add automatic fail-fast exit for TiKV nodes that detect disk I/O hangs to speed up recovery from unresponsive stores [#19626](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19626) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Improve TiKV stability and security by upgrading vulnerable third-party dependencies for TiKV 8.5 and aligning the required compatibility fixes with upstream [#19713](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19713) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Support rank-based limit processing in TiKV to return more accurate results for queries that use truncate key expressions [#19388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19388) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Improve load-based Region splitting in TiKV by relaxing the default split thresholds and adding observability for split-key selection and CPU fallback decisions, helping operators handle hot Regions more effectively [#18932](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18932) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: tikv -->

+ PD

>     - Support batching PD region-routing lookups and serving them from PD followers to reduce routing latency and avoid overloading the PD leader at scale or after failovers [#8690](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8690) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Disable split scatter by default in PD to avoid unexpected scheduling after region splits; you can still enable it by setting `schedule.split-scatter-schedule-limit` to a positive value [#10592](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10592) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->
    - Optimize unsafe recovery empty-region plan generation to improve performance and reduce timeout risk in large clusters with many regions and gaps [#10638](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10638) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) <!-- component: pd -->

>     - Improve the performance and stability of runaway query watch handling, including more reliable watch synchronization across TiDB instances and more efficient background flushing and syncing [#65746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65746) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - Add the global system variable `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` to control whether TiDB uses batched Region queries to PD, improving the efficiency of fetching Region information; this variable is disabled by default [#58439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58439) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

| TiKV | [`resource-control.bg-write-io-floor`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#bg-write-io-floor-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Specifies the minimum write I/O rate guaranteed to background tasks even at maximum compaction pressure. The default value is `"10MB"`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |
| TiKV | [`resource-control.enable-fair-scheduling`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#enable-fair-scheduling-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable two-phase RU-based fair scheduling for read requests. The default value is `false`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |
| TiKV | [`resource-control.enable-read-admission-control`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#enable-read-admission-control-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable admission control for read requests. The default value is `false`. This configuration takes effect only when `enable-fair-scheduling` is also enabled. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |

> | TiKV | [`resource-control.enable-write-admission-control`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#enable-write-admission-control-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable admission control for write requests. The default value is `false`. This configuration takes effect only when `enable-fair-scheduling` is also enabled. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |

Reviewer: Align with https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035
```suggestion
| TiKV | [`resource-control.enable-read-admission-control`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#enable-read-admission-control-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable admission control for read requests. The default value is `false`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |
| TiKV | [`resource-control.enable-write-admission-control`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#enable-write-admission-control-new-in-v857) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable admission control for write requests. The default value is `false`. <!--pr:<https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/23035/files>;tw:lilin90--> |
```

    Starting from v8.5.7, DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing when `foreign_key_checks=1` and `syncer.worker-count > 1`.

    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be created before the task starts. This feature does not support many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, the `compact` or `multiple-rows` DML boundary options, or safe-mode `UPDATE` statements that modify primary key or unique key values. When foreign key causality is enabled, hot configuration updates that modify `worker-count`, `case-sensitive`, route rules, block-allow-list rules, binlog filter rules, or `foreign_key_checks` are not supported. To change these settings, stop the task, update the configuration, and then restart the task.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/dm-compatibility-catalog#foreign-key-cascade-operations).

> * TiCDC supports table routing [#4941](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/4941) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!--2471--><!--tw:qiancai-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports table routing [#4655](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/4655) [#4941](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/4941) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!--2471--><!--tw:qiancai-->
```

        - Improve TiCDC Kafka sink stability by retrying transient producer send failures by default [#1920](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1920) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!-- component: cdc -->
        - Add the `max-retry` Kafka sink URI parameter and enable bounded retries for transient Kafka producer send failures by default to improve TiCDC Kafka sink stability [#12655](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12655) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!-- component: cdc -->
        - Add a local spool to the TiCDC cloud storage sink to stage accepted encoded DML locally before flushing to external storage, reducing memory pressure and improving stability when object storage is slow [#3745](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3745) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!-- component: cdc -->
        - Support TiCDC syncing DDL statements for partial indexes [#3698](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3698) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) <!-- component: cdc -->

>         - Support configuring table routing at the changefeed level in TiCDC, including custom target schema and target table settings in dispatch rules [#4655](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/4655) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) <!-- component: cdc -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Add the `tidb_opt_enable_alternative_logical_plans` system variable to enable alternative logical plan optimization for subquery decorrelation [#66676](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66676) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Add the `tidb_enable_cache_prepare_stmt` system variable to cache repeated prepared statements in the same session and reduce CPU overhead for prepare-per-request workloads [#67815](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67815) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Improve join reordering so that TiDB can handle projections between join groups, reducing unnecessary Cartesian joins and allowing the `LEADING` hint to take effect in more queries [#50229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50229) @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Support nested parentheses in the `LEADING` optimizer hint to specify more complex join orders, such as `LEADING((a, b), (c, d))` [#63253](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63253) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) <!-- component: planner -->

>     - Improve the performance of `ORDER BY` with `LIMIT` queries that use `IndexMerge` with `IN` conditions by enabling limit pushdown and merge sort for partial paths [#65712](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65712) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) <!-- component: planner -->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of `ORDER BY ... LIMIT` queries that contain `OR` and `IN` conditions. The optimizer can now choose `IndexMerge` more effectively and supports merge sort for `IN` condition paths in `IndexMerge`, enabling `Limit` pushdown to partial paths and reducing unnecessary row reads and I/O overhead. [#65712](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65712) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) <!-- component: planner -->
```

    - Improve transactional timestamp validation by enforcing exact max-ts checks for non-TiDB requests, reducing the risk that external components use future timestamps incorrectly [#68799](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68799) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Optimize auto-commit optimistic transactions by skipping lock resolution on the first execution, reducing latency in high-contention scenarios [#58675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58675) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Improve the performance and stability of runaway query watch handling, including more reliable watch synchronization across TiDB instances and more efficient background flushing and syncing [#65746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65746) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd (Although it is listed under the PD component label, in fact it only involves changes on the TiDB side )-->

>     - Add the global system variable `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` to control whether TiDB uses batched Region queries to PD, improving the efficiency of fetching Region information; this variable is disabled by default [#58439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58439) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd (this is only a change on the TiDB side,) -->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add the global system variable `tidb_enable_batch_query_region` to control whether TiDB uses batched Region queries to PD, improving the efficiency of fetching Region information; this variable is disabled by default [#58439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58439) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd (this is only a change on the TiDB side,) -->
    - Improve the optimizer performance for queries on tables with many indexes by pruning irrelevant indexes before cost estimation, reducing query planning time and avoiding unnecessary full-range out-of-range estimation [#63856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63856) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Enhance the **Ping Latency** panel in the Blackbox exporter dashboard by adding a `Max Ping Latency` metric using the `max_over_time` alert rule. This change aligns the dashboard visualization with the TiDB alerting logic, which enables you to more easily identify peak latency spikes and verify alert triggers. [#1071](https://github.com/pingcap/monitoring/issues/1071) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

```

Author: @ginkgoch, @yibin87 PTAL

    - Fix the issue that queries with derived tables and `UNION ALL` might return incorrect results because TiDB incorrectly simplifies outer joins [#67373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67373) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Fix the issue that queries with `LEFT JOIN` or `RIGHT JOIN` and `NULL`-sensitive boolean expressions in the `WHERE` clause might return incorrect results [#66824](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66824) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Fix the issue that `LEFT JOIN` queries with null-sensitive predicates such as `IN (NULL, ...)` might return incorrect results because TiDB incorrectly simplifies the outer join [#66825](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66825) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) <!-- component: planner -->
    - Fix the issue that prepared statements on outer joins might skip the prepared plan cache when the null-reject check is independent of parameter values [#67048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67048) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) <!-- component: planner -->

>     - Fix the issue that query planning time increases significantly for queries on tables with many indexes because TiDB performs unnecessary full-range out-of-range estimation [#63856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63856) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - improve the optimizer performance to reduce planning time for queries on tables with many indexes because TiDB performs unnecessary full-range out-of-range estimation [#63856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63856) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->
```

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the optimizer performance for queries on tables with many indexes by pruning irrelevant indexes before cost estimation, reducing query planning time and avoiding unnecessary full-range out-of-range estimation [#63856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63856) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->
```

>     - Improve the optimizer performance for queries on tables with many indexes by pruning irrelevant indexes before cost estimation, reducing query planning time and avoiding unnecessary full-range out-of-range estimation [#63856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63856) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Data migration

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing [#12350](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12350) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929) <!--2427--> <!-- https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/12707 -->

    Starting from v8.5.7, DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing when foreign_key_checks=1 and syncer.worker-count > 1.

    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be pre-created before task start. This support does not include many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, safe mode, or PK/UK-changing updates.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
TiKV
    - TiKV now rejects confirmed invalid `max_ts` updates by default instead of only logging them. This improves safety by preventing invalid timestamp updates without panicking TiKV. To keep the previous log-only behavior, set `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` to `log` [#19755](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19755) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: tikv -->
```

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> |  |  |  |  |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |
```

    - Fix the issue that non-TiDB transaction-related requests might incorrectly pass future timestamp validation and cause inconsistent behavior in `ScanLock`, backup range, `CheckTxnStatus`, `Cleanup`, and `CheckSecondaryLocks` [#19656](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19656) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Fix the issue that foreign key cascade updates in pessimistic transactions might fail with `use Op::SharedLock to prewrite on a shared lock` when `tidb_foreign_key_check_in_shared_lock` is enabled [#68133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68133) @[wfxr](https://github.com/wfxr) <!-- component: transaction -->
    - Fix the issue that stale Region cache entries might continue to be used after `RegionNotFound` errors, causing repeated retries and extra cross-AZ traffic [#69197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/69197) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: transaction -->

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the issue that the resolved_ts module consumes too much memory when the number of Regions is large [#19535](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19535) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) <!-- component: tikv -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the resolved_ts module consumes excessive memory when the number of Regions is large [#19535](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19535) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) <!-- component: tikv -->
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV might start the next compaction round immediately after a long-running round when MVCC read-aware compaction is enabled, resulting in insufficient statistics collection for load-based compaction [#19362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19362) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Fix the issue that TiKV memory usage increases over time in stable workloads when using raft-engine [#19544](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19544) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) <!-- component: tikv -->
    - Fix the issue that manually evicting regions from the TiKV in-memory engine leaves regions stuck in the `Evicting` state and prevents them from being automatically loaded again [#19584](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19584) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) <!-- component: tikv -->

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV consumes too much memory in raft message queues when a store uses multiple gRPC raft connections [#19542](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19542) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) <!-- component: tikv -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV consumes excessive memory in raft message queues when a store uses multiple gRPC raft connections [#19542](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19542) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) <!-- component: tikv -->
```

    This feature also adds CPU-related hotspot statistics and scheduler controls, including the `cpu-read-rate` field in hot store statistics and the `min-hot-cpu-rate` and `cpu-rate-rank-step-ratio` scheduler configuration items.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Reliability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Availability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### SQL

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion

* Support partial indexes to reduce index storage and DML maintenance overhead [#62444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62444) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) <!--21903--> <!--2270-->
    
    Starting from v8.5.7, TiDB supports partial indexes, which index only rows that satisfy a predicate defined in the index `WHERE` clause. You can create a partial index using `CREATE INDEX ... WHERE ...`, `ALTER TABLE ... ADD INDEX ... WHERE ...`, or an index definition in `CREATE TABLE`.

    Partial indexes are useful when you frequently query a selective subset of rows or need unique constraints that apply only under specific conditions. Because rows outside the predicate are not written to the index, partial indexes help reduce index storage and can lower index maintenance overhead during `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations.

    To use partial indexes effectively, define the predicate to match the filters in your common queries. TiDB selects a partial index only when the query predicates match or imply the partial index predicate. Currently, partial index predicates support basic comparison operators (`=`, `!=`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`), `IS NULL`, `IS NOT NULL`, and `IN` predicates with constant values.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/sql-statement-create-index/#partial-indexes).

```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Data migration

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

* DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing [#12350](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12350) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929) <!--2427--> <!-- https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/12707 -->

    Starting from v8.5.7, DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing when foreign_key_checks=1 and syncer.worker-count > 1.

    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be pre-created before task start. This support does not include many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, safe mode, or PK/UK-changing updates.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](link).

Reviewer 8: Current wording says safe mode is unsupported, but release-8.5 only rejects `compact`/`multiple-rows`; safe mode has the narrower PK/UK update limitation.

```suggestion
    Starting from v8.5.7, DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing when `foreign_key_checks=1` and `syncer.worker-count > 1`.

    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be pre-created before the task starts. This support does not include many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, `compact` or `multiple-rows` DML boundary options, or safe-mode updates that modify primary keys or unique keys. When foreign key causality is enabled, hot configuration updates that change `worker-count`, `case-sensitive`, route rules, block-allow-list rules, binlog filter rules, or `foreign_key_checks` are rejected. To change these settings, stop and restart the task with the new configuration.

    For more information, see [DM Compatibility Catalog](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md#foreign-key-cascade-operations).
```

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

### System tables

### Other changes

## Removed features

* Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface. [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--2273-->

>     To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the [TiDB Lightning command-line tools]((/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md)): [`tidb-lightning`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning) for import tasks and [`tidb-lightning-ctl`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning) for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.

Reviewer 8: Fix two links: remove the extra `(`, and point `tidb-lightning-ctl` to its own anchor.

```suggestion
    To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the [TiDB Lightning command-line tools](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md): [`tidb-lightning`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning) for import tasks and [`tidb-lightning-ctl`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning-ctl) for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.
```

    For new data import workloads, you can also use the [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) statement.

    If this change affects your workflow, comment on [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697).

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support `LATERAL` derived tables to improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility, including common use cases such as comma joins, `CROSS JOIN LATERAL`, and `INNER JOIN LATERAL` [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner --> <!--2432--> <!-- replace it with a feature description-->

>     - Improve compatibility of partial indexes with BR so that BR preserves their `WHERE` predicates when repairing ingest indexes during log restore [#62664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62664) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: sql-infra --> <!--2270--> <!-- replace it with a feature description-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve compatibility of partial indexes with BR so that BR preserves their `WHERE` predicates when repairing ingest indexes during log restore [#62664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62664) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: sql-infra -->
```

+ TiKV

    - Add dynamic resource group isolation to protect sustained workloads from traffic spikes by deprioritizing requests from groups that exceed their historical RU baselines and optionally delaying or rejecting over-baseline requests under high CPU load, with new `resource-control` configuration options that are disabled by default [#19607](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19607) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft --> <!--2465-->
    - Use a global rate limiter for all TiKV background resource groups and aggregate related background resource-control metrics without the `resource_group` label, requiring affected dashboards and alerts to be updated [#19497](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19497) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft -->
    - Improve TiKV unified read pool scheduling fairness by allowing higher-priority requests to evict lower-priority queued tasks when the queue is full, helping ensure fairer resource allocation across tenants and background traffic [#19386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19386) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh) <!-- component: raft -->

>     - Mark PITR-restored `Put` and `Delete` write CF records with the physical import transaction source during apply log processing so TiCDC can ignore PITR-imported data [#19669](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19669) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) <!-- component: tikv -->

Reviewer 9: Better move to `Improvment`, near https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68660

Author: Usually, we place the entries according to the target component that made these updates. For example, the subject of "Mark" is TiKV.

    - Fix the issue that PD affinity scheduling might treat a Region as properly replicated even when the highest isolation level required by placement rules is not satisfied, which can lead to incorrect replica placement decisions [#10149](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10149) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM) <!-- component: pd -->
    - Fix the potential PD panic that occurs when region heartbeat breakdown metrics encounter a brief backward jump in the host's monotonic clock, causing the `counter cannot decrease in value` error [#10901](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10901) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) <!-- component: pd -->
    - Fix the issue that PD incorrectly reports affinity checker operator limit metrics when no affinity groups are configured [#10687](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10687) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->

>     - Fix the issue that PD split scatter is enabled by default and causes severe performance regression in some workloads [#10830](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10830) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) <!-- component: pd -->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
It has been covered by L208

        - Fix the issue that BR `log truncate` might fail in S3-compatible storage when the lock file is at the storage root [#65897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65897) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that BR point-in-time restore might run out of memory during metadata restoration when the backup contains many versions of `mDB:*` meta keys [#67196](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67196) @[vldmit](https://github.com/vldmit) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that BR might fail to access a custom AWS S3 endpoint when AWS FIPS endpoint mode is enabled [#68966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68966) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that BR might incorrectly identify whether log backup metadata contains meta KV log files because of a reversed metadata filename flag [#19658](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19658) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->

>         - Fix the issue that BR might misidentify log backup metadata files during backup and restore because the DDL flag in the metadata file name is reversed [#19731](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19731) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 9: These are newly added in the same release.

        - Fix the issue that BR S3 permission checks might fail when credentials are scoped to the configured prefix, causing backup or restore tasks to fail before starting [#68583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68583) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that BR might not write the PiTR blocklist when resuming a restore from a checkpoint after a failed restore with log backup enabled [#68171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/68171) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that a BR log backup task startup hangs when initializing more than 32768 Regions [#19615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19615) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) <!-- component: br -->
        - Fix the issue that BR restore might fail with the `Transaction is too large` error when logically restoring system tables by adding the `--txn-total-size-limit` option to adjust the transaction memory quota [#64492](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64492) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->

>         - Fix the issue that BR restore might fail with the `Transaction is too large` error when logically restoring system tables by adding the `--txn-total-size-limit` parameter to adjust the transaction memory quota [#66806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66806) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR restore might fail with the `Transaction is too large` error when logically restoring system tables by adding the `--txn-total-size-limit` parameter to adjust the transaction memory quota [#66806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/66806) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!-- component: br -->
```

duplicated

    Downstream schemas and foreign key definitions must be pre-created before the task starts. This support does not include many-to-one or shard-merge routing, dynamic foreign key DDL during replication, `compact` or `multiple-rows` DML boundary options, or safe-mode updates that modify primary keys or unique keys. When foreign key causality is enabled, hot configuration updates that change `worker-count`, `case-sensitive`, route rules, block-allow-list rules, binlog filter rules, or `foreign_key_checks` are rejected. To change these settings, stop and restart the task with the new configuration.

    For more information, see [DM Compatibility Catalog](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md#foreign-key-cascade-operations).

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes

*  TiKV now rejects confirmed invalid `max_ts` updates by default instead of only logging them. This improves safety by preventing invalid timestamp updates without panicking TiKV. To keep the previous log-only behavior, set `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` to `log` [#19755](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19755) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: tikv -->

### MySQL compatibility

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* Support parsing the `LATERAL` syntax for derived tables to improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility, including common use cases such as comma joins, `CROSS JOIN LATERAL`, and `INNER JOIN LATERAL` <!--2432--> 

    Currently, TiDB only supports parsing [the `LATERAL` derived table syntax](/lateral-derived-tables.md) and does not support executing queries that use this syntax. If you attempt to execute such a query, TiDB returns an error. You can track the progress of full execution support for this feature in issue [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328).

```

|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

### System tables

### Other changes

* Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.25.8 to go1.25.10, which improves the TiDB performance. If you are a TiDB developer, upgrade your Go compiler version to ensure smooth compilation. <!--2468--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

## Removed features

* Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface. [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--2273--> <!--tw:lilin90-->

    To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the [TiDB Lightning command-line tools](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md): [`tidb-lightning`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning) for import tasks and [`tidb-lightning-ctl`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-command-line-full.md#tidb-lightning-ctl) for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.

    For new data import workloads, you can also use the [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) statement.

    If this change affects your workflow, comment on [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697).

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Support `LATERAL` derived tables to improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility, including common use cases such as comma joins, `CROSS JOIN LATERAL`, and `INNER JOIN LATERAL` [#40328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40328) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!-- component: planner --> <!--2432--> <!-- replace it with a feature description-->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Data migration

* Placeholder for feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-author-github-id](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

> * DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing [#12350](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12350) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929) <!--2427--> <!-- https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/12707 -->

Author: ```suggestion
* DM supports foreign key causality for static one-to-one schema/table routing [#12350](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12350) @[OliverS929](https://github.com/OliverS929) <!--2427--> <!-- https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/12707 --> <!--tw@lilin90-->
```

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes
TiKV
    - TiKV now rejects confirmed invalid `max_ts` updates by default instead of only logging them. This improves safety by preventing invalid timestamp updates without panicking TiKV. To keep the previous log-only behavior, set `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` to `log` [#19755](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19755) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) <!-- component: tikv -->
### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | `storage.max-ts.action-on-invalid-update` | Newly added | Controls TiKV behavior when it confirms an invalid `max_ts` update. Valid values are `error`, `log`, and `panic`. The default value is `error`, which rejects the invalid update without panicking TiKV. |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

### System tables

### Other changes

## Removed features

> * Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface. [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--2273-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface. [#67697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/67697) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--2273--> <!--tw@lilin90-->
```
